it's my pleasure to introduce David Cay
Johnston David Cay Johnston is a future
prize-winning investigative reporter and
best-selling author of the making of
Donald Trump
Johnston teaches at Syracuse University
College of Law he's been a frequent
guest on MSNBC CNN the BBC ABC World
News Tonight Democracy Now and NPR's
Morning Edition and for all of you house
of cards fans out there was a consultant
on electricity regulation rare earths
and journalism for the Netflix series
pretty cool stuff Johnston a longtime
Trump observer illuminates the sordid
underbelly of the Trump administration
in its even worse than you think what
the Trump administration is doing to
America he writes a detailed analysis of
the Trump administration's first 100
days he shows how Trump's policies are
affecting ordinary people's jobs
finances and security explains the
federal agencies charged with carrying
out Trump's exact executive actions and
highlights places where the system can
hide what's really going on the sad part
is at least for us is that he's been
warning about the dangers of Trump for
years and it's all coming true including
his prediction that as president Trump's
behavior would become increasingly
erratic and it has Plus this just in
this book will debut February 4th on the
New York Times bestseller list at number
2 you heard it here first without
further ado please join me in welcoming
David Cay Johnston to politics and prose
well good evening thank you for coming
I'm glad to see so many people and I
promise you I'm gonna leave you with
some hope and positive message not just
the downer stuff that I'm so well known
for okay um our country our democracy is
in very very deep trouble can you hear
me in the back by the way okay Donald
Trump is not the disease he is the
symptom it's terribly important to
understand that he is the symptom not
the disease and if we're going to fix
this and we're going to get this
manifestly unqualified criminal out of
the White House we have to do some work
we've got to diagnose the real
underlying problem now I've been giving
talks like this now since beginning last
week when the book was published and the
questions I get particularly last night
at the library in Baltimore where I had
an audience about this size tell me
something very important the same thing
that happens on the radio shows I do
where if people call him Americans have
a pretty good idea of the chaos and the
palace intrigues in the Trump White
House journalists are actually doing a
much better job of covering what's going
on in the White House than I anticipated
partly because even though Donald Trump
is all about loyalty to Donald there are
all sorts of people eager to leak who
are in there not as close allies of his
and who want to position themselves for
the future with journalists people whose
names you're never going to see in print
that's not the story that matters it
doesn't matter it's entertaining it's
easy to read I encourage you read
Michael Wolf's book not in the least
because it verifies what was in the book
I was last year to speak about the
making of Donald Trump but you know I
mean it's a good read he's an excellent
gossip reporter but that's not what
happens it affects your lives your
children's lives if you're my age your
grandchildren's and for all I know maybe
there are great grandchildren on the way
at this point it is important that we
understand what the Trump administration
is doing
and it's not Donald personally doing
this Donald's a lazy guy you know we all
know he works about four hours a day he
he he said when he was running you know
I'm never gonna leave the White House
there's so much to do just I'll never
leave the White House I'm never gonna
see to my golf courses of course he
spends one third of his time at his
properties it's the people he brought
him and Steve Bannon put it best he ban
and said I'm a Leninist that is I'm
someone who wants to destroy the
existing order
many of these people although they
certainly wouldn't put it in these terms
hate the United States of America they
hate it they hate the fact that there
are people of color in this country that
there are people of a different religion
in this country that there are people
who are not interested in worshiping the
rich and trying to get rich and
certainly don't want to be taxed to
subsidize the rich and we need to
recognize that in the same vein we have
a President of the United States who is
not a loyal citizen if you go back after
you go home tonight or sometime the next
few days go to the internet and look at
the email that Rob Goldstone the PR guy
sent to Donald Trump jr. it's on the New
York Times website among other places
and you want to read it carefully
because the journalists who wrote about
it at the time who are very good
reporters but they're not investigative
reporters their politics reporters did
not parse the sentences in there and the
fourth sentence of this email makes it
clear that there was an ongoing
conspiracy collusion is not a crime I
don't care about collusion I care about
conspiracies there was an ongoing
conspiracy between the Kremlin the Trump
administration it says in the fourth
line and I you can check the exact
language when you get home as part of
Russia's efforts to help that's not a
high would you like to get together and
see if we might do something for you
that's we're already sleeping together
you want to try something new well
Donald Trump has been involved with the
Russians back to 1983 he has worked very
hard to
suppress a lawsuit about a quarter
billion dollar tax fraud which he
authorized in fact DC report org the
nonprofit News Service that my friends
and I started as a volunteer project and
we're trying to raise money for DC
report is in court trying to get access
to some of the documents in this case
that had been sealed because Trump has
been incredibly successful in hiding the
record of his conduct
so when Trump came to the White House
the people he brought with him Michael
Flynn confessed felon convict Steve
Bannon a whole bunch of other people
brought with them this team that I call
team Trump
and in the federal agencies it's not
just the incompetent unqualified anti to
their oath of office cabinet secretaries
who matter it's not just Scott proto
wants to destroy the EPA and Betsy DeVos
who's completely unqualified it's the
people that came with them that I call
political termites and they have been
loosed into the structure of our
government and they are damaging our
government for example they have stopped
posting notices of worker deaths about
forty eight hundred people a year die on
the job and some of these are just
accidents nobody could have predicted
you could follow the best practices and
they're gonna happen anyway but many of
them are the result of the fact that
surprise surprise well some employers
most employers try or do a good job
there are some who they just don't care
there are employers who have a record of
time after time they have workers who
are unnecessarily maimed or killed the
records of those aren't there anymore
they're not putting them up there
fighting giving away the statistical
information that we need to understand
what they're doing and the Labor
Department's actions in this area are
far from unique I asked the federal
government under an agency Trump just
took control of the consumer finance
Protection Bureau which has got
recovered multiples of its budget
for a copy of a receipt I wanted to see
evidence that a huge fine supposedly
paid by one of the banks was actually
paid you know lots of the fines you read
about in the newspapers by criminals
never get paid they delayed they were
slow they got back and sent me a lot of
irrelevant stuff and I said gee you know
thanks for all this information that's
already on your internet but I just want
proof of payment a receipt a notice you
clearly no one would make you know a
payment in the hundreds of millions of
dollars without having gotten a receipt
for it and they said well you'll have to
file a Freedom of Information Act
request this is the kind of
administration we have when Donald Trump
took the oath of office to faithfully
execute the laws and to be loyal to the
United States of America he then got in
a motorcade to go to the White House
there's a TV camera a pool camera in a
truck right in front that looks square
down the middle the presidential
limousine known as the Beast stopped and
it stopped at a place where the family
got out they spent two minutes walking
around and what the cameras didn't tell
you was where they stopped not one of
the television networks mentioned where
did they stop they stopped in front of
the Trump International Hotel whose
lease says no federal employee can be
involved in that lease and you know what
we have jointly an employee named Donald
J Trump he's our employee well the
reason he did that was you know a lot of
people voted for him would be
meaningless even if the camera had
panned to show the hotel but if you're
an emissary of the government of Kuwait
seeking a favor from Donald Trump if
you're an oil baron or a coal company or
anybody else who wants a favor from the
Trump administration you got the message
and that hotel which Trump had in
filings the Trump Organization filings
had predicted will lose money in its
first year is making money hand over
fist anybody here in the bar business
well they're taking in at the bar
sixty-eight thousand dollars a night
cocktail started $36 steak start at 60
they're making money hand over fist
because if you want something from the
Trump administration what he made clear
is you will pay me tribute you'll sign
up to join mar-a-lago where he doubled
the admission price but worse than that
are these appointees that they've put in
place who are totally unqualified and in
many cases enemies of the agencies they
represent Donald Trump's administration
is turning America into what the ancient
Greeks called a caki stock receipt that
is a government of the worst people the
most venal unqualified criminal elements
around the worst people this isn't David
Halberstam is the best and the brightest
they may have screwed up but at least
they were qualified and knew what they
were doing these are people who when
they get called to testify give answers
that make it clear they have no business
being the manager of the little town I
live in in western New York much less
running a cabinet agency what they're
doing has not been in the news and
that's part of the message that's going
to lead to some hope here this book
tells you what has either not been in
the news or been in it glancingly about
what they're doing to our government and
that affects your safety your income
your future show of hands how many
people have heard of a trade pact called
the RCEP
almost nobody okay you should really
care about this Donald Trump came into
office and killed the trans-pacific
partnership the transfer I was one of
the most prominent early critics of the
trans-pacific partnership every TV show
I could get on I wrote columns about
because that partnership had serious
flaws it was written in secret by
corporate lobbyists and by lawyers
involved in the trade business it was so
secretive that when my congresswoman
Louise slaughter having seen what I
wrote wanted to read what was in there
she goes to an office it's secretive she
has to turn over her cell phone she's
not a lot of piece of paper or a pencil
she searched and then she's led into a
room and I said well Louise can you tell
anything about what you read and she
said yeah it's all written in really
language that doesn't mean anything to
me and Louise has a PhD in microbiology
it's not that she's not smart it's
written in the language of people in
trade not to be understood by mere
mortals well we needed to fix the TPP
but Donald killed it and did nothing to
replace it nothing that creates a vacuum
and into that vacuum stepped president G
the RCEP is the regional comprehensive
economic partnership led by Beijing it's
15 Pacific Rim countries not us just as
TPP didn't include China 15 Pacific Rim
countries plus India now when I was in
Australia in October to lecture about
Trump about journalism and the key
reason I was brought there about tax
policy I was astonished at what I heard
from government officials journalists
chamber maids taxi drivers students
professors they all the same thing they
were all saying that Australia is going
to have to reorient its trade policies
towards Beijing because there's no
American leadership and it would be
foolish to not get with the program now
one of the purposes of the trans-pacific
partnership was to contain China you
know China is very expansionist that's
why they're building in the Spratly
Islands these artificial islands and
saying you can't fly airplanes over here
or run ships through here especially not
military ships China believes that it's
the country of the future and if you
drive on their highways I've at least
been driven on their highways I got to
tell you they put the autobahn to shame
which puts our interstates to shame
there are as I like to say like the
Catholic Church in terms of their
thinking we're here forever
what is Trump doing nothing
Japan signs a trade deal with the
European Union last summer in Brussels
Donald Trump is 800 miles to the east in
Poland he's giving a speech where he
talks about everyone adored me you know
it was so wonderful everybody how
wonderful how wonderful that's because
the right wing government of Paul
and used police to make sure that only
Trump supporters people with that
right-wing party got in that protesters
are kept blocks away and if you had a TV
crew and tried to go shoot the
protesters they stopped capture the
protesters on film the military and the
police stopped you they wouldn't let you
go make images so well this important
trade deal is going down where's Donald
Trump well you put Japan together with
Europe and the RCEP and this is not good
for our future this is very very bad for
our future Donald has a degree on his
office from Penn and Ivy League school
in economics he was given that degree
and I emphasize the verb given because
he always said Mexico is gonna pay for
the wall and all thinking people went
how would you make a sovereign nation
pay for a wall they don't want I have a
plan
remember what his plan was when he came
into office I'm gonna put a tariff on
Mexican goods it's a guy with an
economics degree who doesn't know that a
tariff on imported mexican goods and
services mean we pay for the wall
through higher prices the man doesn't
know anything he appoints as his
commerce secretary one of the leading
vulture capitalists in America Wilbur
Ross whose specialty is seizing a
company that's run out of cash
recapitalizing it you shrit you don't
pay the bills yo G doesn't that
something Donald Trump never heard of
you borrow new money something Donald
Trump certainly has heard of then you
squeeze the borrowed money out and put
it in your own pocket and you turn the
zombie loose until it dies Wilbur Ross
goes with Donald Trump to Riyadh where
Donald Trump praises the Saudis for
leading the fight against terrorism you
know the biggest funders of terrorism in
the world are he attacks Qatar which is
an ally of the u.s. that allows us to
have our most important military base
there and Wilbur Ross comes back from
this trip he goes on CNBC and he says
you know I I got to tell you one thing
where I go the Saudi people love us they
just totally love us you know there
wasn't a single demonstrator anywhere
when we were there and and Becky quick
the young host says a well secretary
Ross it's against the law to protest
there they they arrest people they whip
them and he said well you say so I don't
know but I didn't see a single protester
and you know let me add another thing
but I got ready to leave on my US
government plane my Saudi guards got out
these two baskets of dates the most
beautiful dates what a heartfelt gift
from these men who'd been aside this guy
doesn't even know when he's being bribed
by a foreign government so all of this
stuff I'm telling you is entertaining
and it's sort of fun but what affects
your life is going to be you want to see
you want to raise profits in the oil
industry and the gas industry in the
coal industry there's a really easy way
to do it and let's be honest we all use
oil and gas we shouldn't hate Exxon
Mobil it makes our cars run but the way
that the Trump administration is cutting
regulations it's just go ahead and
pollute
take the toxic residue from burning coal
and instead of drying it out and putting
in a place where it's unlikely to cause
harm continue to put it into slurries
and then toxic ponds next to rivers
where we get drinking water that's not
benefiting us
that's simply jacking up the profits of
these companies which by the way get
paid rates under a rate regulation to
pay for these costs of cleaning up their
mess let's go to the student loan
industry you know what I reasonable
college education is college was free in
California when I was a teenager and a
young man that's how I got I got a
college education dad and war orphans
benefits and what is that the Trump
administration doing we're gonna address
the student loan problem so Betsy DeVos
brings in of course executives from the
companies that made the student loans
this is not the henhouse being guarded
by the Fox this is building a new
henhouse designed by the Fox
and in the book I go through a bunch of
the agencies and tell you those of you
who've read my other books you know this
isn't dry policy manual stuff I tell
these through the stories of people of
what they're doing what's happening to
these folks and that's the story
Americans do not know that is the story
that matters deeply that we need to get
people to understand now Donald Trump is
never going to resign absent something
totally unexpected or some severe
problem and I certainly hope Donald does
not have a stroke or a heart attack or
something like that but it's a
possibility but his ego is never gonna
let him resign he will not be moved
against by the Republicans under what we
know now they've made their bed with him
they're excusing everything he does in
my state when we had a governor who by
wire transfer sent $4,000 to pay for a
hooker here in DC the leaders of the
state legislature went to Eliot Spitzer
and said if you don't resign we're going
to impeach you try you and convict you
and he resigned you know I have this
vague recollection of Republican leaders
talking about their concerns about
immorality especially women and wanting
to make sure we can't have access to
things like birth control and other
stuff and talking about family values so
out comes the Wall Street Journal on the
Playmate of the Year who got paid 150
grand to not talk and now the porn star
and trust me it's a quote Donald believe
me there's more like this out there
where are the moralists about Donald
Trump's behavior and I don't buy the
argument oh we all know that about him
that's not the point
the point is his conduct is outrageous
where are the moralists who scream about
drugs and say nothing about what I
described in this book in the previous
book about Donald's deep entanglement
with a major international cocaine
trafficker and things he did that make
no sense whatsoever unless they were in
business together in which case
everything he did makes perfect sense
where are these people
where are the ministers oh that's right
I saw Franklin gray
on TV the other day he said Donald is a
channel denies it well
Eliot Spitzer denied it what Bill
Clinton denied it but but more
importantly he goes you know if Donald
is a changed man from ten years ago and
I thought well that's a reasonable
question to think you know was I
different ten years ago and you know I
was I had less gray hair now what
matters is that we get a new Congress
Donald Trump ran for president based on
a the economic policies just the
economics not the racism that was in my
trilogy on the American economy
perfectly legal free lunch and the fine
print if you know that Walmart uses your
tax dollars to build its stores and GE
taxes its workers in Ohio to build
factories you know that because of my
work and it's now widespread in the
economy even if most people forgotten
I'm the guy who brought all that to the
fore years ago well I said back in 2012
a year when the average income of the
bottom 90% of Americans was lower
adjusted for inflation was lower than in
1967 the year I graduated from high
school that if you ran for president on
the economics of my books you would win
because it champions the 90 percent in
fact the champions basically the 99.5
percent that's what Donald did and I
know he watched me on television because
he talked to other people about it who
told me about his watching me on
television and Donald Trump said I'm
gonna drain the swamp he comes here and
immediately turns into a federally
protected wetland a paradise for Wall
Street he said he says in 2015 I have a
tax plan here the best tax experts in
America have all been over it well one
of the things I am legitimately regarded
as an expert on his tax policy and I
called and said we're the experts there
are no experts they didn't have anybody
come April he's been in office three
months he promised day one we're gonna
have a tax bill they put out a 100 word
tax plan you know what it was it was a
shopping list for goldman sachs clients
and he said first $50,000
married couple won't pay any taxes well
the new law is $24,000 and you lost a
lot of deductions balances I love the
police
I love the cops you know they're so
important they're so important so he
took away in the bill he signed their
ability to write off the cost of buying
uniforms dry-cleaning them buying guns
buying bullets to teachers he says he
loves education he wants to be the
education president if you're going to
get an advanced degree which will earn
you more money and hopefully make you a
better teacher
no more deduction for tuition and books
to get an advanced degree this is the
anti-education presidency the questions
I'm being asked by people tell me that
people don't know that they are once
again as during the campaign so
fascinated by what's going on in the
White House they're not paying attention
to what matters and the reason I hope
every single one of you reads my books
and if you can't afford the book it's in
the library go get on the list is that
people need to know this or we will not
get change citizenship is not something
that you can outsource you've got we've
got to do the work ourselves and you've
got to know and you've got to talk to
people I talked to a Labour leader I
have great respect for who's in the room
tonight who I've known for a number of
years and one of the problems that all
the labor leaders I speak to face is
that a lot of their members believe
Donald Trump is helping them they have
no idea the damage he is doing to them
because it's not in the news it's not in
the news journalism never did a great
job of covering government but 40% of
journalism jobs in this country have
disappeared since 2000 and as a result
of that the agencies aren't being
covered at all the electricity markets
job safety diplomacy all through the
government the military all of these
things are being ravaged by this cactus
tock recei you got to do the work I mean
it's not really hard you got to spend a
couple evenings reading the book and
then you've got to take the stories mark
the book up right in the margins make
notes tell other people have the facts
to persuade them to understand what's
wrong now the Democrats
who have not paid attention to their
knitting for 40 years while the
Republicans have been building bench
strength passing laws to suppress votes
coming up with laws to throw out votes
after they're cast as we saw in Michigan
the Democrats have to run candidates who
are viable I sent a news clip by a
friend of mine a compilation of a couple
of interviews with people who want to
run for office as Democrats and gee they
were young and they were earnest and
it's the kind of person you know the
future we ought to have running our
government and then they got asked
questions by local TV reporters not
exactly the toughest journalists is a
class out there and they immediately
fell apart because they didn't know
anything they were just like Donald
Trump they didn't know anything you've
got to find and develop real candidates
people have to get registered to vote
people have to be driven to the polls on
Election Day and if you live in a
district like I do where I think it's
overwhelmingly clear that my Congress
person will get reelected well go to a
district where there might be change
arrange in advance to go there drive
people to the polls don't call people
and ask them to go go get them take them
to the polls that's the only thing that
matters at the end of the day our votes
that's what matters if we do our jobs as
citizens we become informed we insist on
rational debate about real issues and we
then get people to the polls we can get
a different Congress we can get rid of
this presidency and we can have a bright
future there's damage that will last
forever but the longer he's in office
the longer he is a clear and present
danger to all the world so please you
know read my book get to the actual
damage being done and tell other people
and one last thing next time you go to a
talk by me because I'm sure I'll be back
with one of my future books maybe the
one I hope they have out next year which
is a whole new tax system that's simple
and not you can't cheat under my system
without committing a crime bring a young
person
bring a young person so thank you if you
have questions if you'd line up to the
microphones and the only rule is you got
to ask a question those speeches and
I'll cut you off and have you get back
in line after you've refined it if you
don't have a question so sir
good I enjoy you on TV every time you're
on I enjoyed you more the question why
aren't the Democrats talking the way
you're talking every single day well I
think that's the problem of the campaign
finance system after Watergate and just
about everybody here is old enough to
remember Watergate which took by the way
26 months with a hostile Congress for
Nixon we passed all these campaign
finance laws we thought they were gonna
clean up campaign finance they backfired
they're a complete disaster they have
enhanced the power of the what I call
the political donor class and we're
gonna have to go back and revisit this
and frankly I think after the
experiments in Maine and Arizona we need
public financing you get a budget to run
for office and I also believe we have to
have an absolute prohibition on any
favors to elected members of Congress
you can't ride in the corporate jet you
need to go somewhere we'll pay for it as
taxpayers it'll be cheaper so ma'am
Oh Thank You mr. Johnson ah
you think and we all think I think that
we need to get rid of Trump but what
about pence some people say that pence
would be worse okay there's a we're
gonna we're gonna face a constitutional
crisis if the decision is made with a
Democratic majority won't happen with
Republicans to impeach and convict
Donald Trump and hopefully do that to
them try him convict him and send him to
prison because otherwise he will spend
the rest of his life traveling the
country fomenting violence and
revolution and if you doubt that just
remember when he would say beat that guy
up I'll pay your bills and he's trying
to get votes imagine when he never knows
he's never gonna get another vote
if the Russians put Donald Trump in
office made the margin a difference can
their other beneficiary legitimately
become president I don't think so but a
lot of people will scream that's a coup
date
and who would become president well this
thing's stand now
no Nancy Pelosi Nancy Pelosi and so if
the Democrats do this I believe that the
Speaker of the House has to say upon
taking the oath of office I am a
caretaker I will not be involved in the
election I will retire from public
office at the end of this term I'm not
running and I'm not gonna speak out on
the campaign you know ask any question
you want I'm not talking about it I'm a
caretaker and I'm Caesar's wife that's
the only way that can possibly work but
it is it is going to be very big
constitutional crisis of whether or not
pence can be put in office and of course
pence believes that God put him where he
is because as you can see by looking at
him he would be God's chosen president
sir you set out Trump had connections
with cocaine dealers and a major
international cocaine trafficker and
it's all in court records and I think I
read he in mob connections to Donald but
it sounded tense yeah why the hell did
Hillary exploit that what why didn't the
Democrats know she now she's well he
called her dishonest it's crazy
I'm gonna I'm gonna recommend to you
another book Donna Brazil's book hacks
which was written by someone I trained
to be a journalist Danelle Morton who's
done this with a number of people turned
their their ideas into good book and it
explained that basically Hillary Clinton
wouldn't listen to advice insulted
people who tried to give her what turned
out to be good advice
and she you know in love and war there
are no rules and when it turns out that
somebody is running a totally different
campaign like Trump did you can't keep
doing what you're doing you got to
respond and she didn't and she paid the
price for it so and you know the
Russians helped sir you talk about us
going out and getting your book and I
will get your book but I'm more
concerned about the ignorance of
Americans I mean it seems to me that we
have a crisis of information and part of
the problem is it's not the people in
this room no it's not the people in this
room and the proud
is the people in West Virginia pencils
in this city trust and people in this
well now a bunch of them over there on
Capitol Hill but but we have anyway my
question is yeah if we Trump is a
symptom of this ignorance right I mean
what we do about this do we do about
making sure or making it possible for
Americans to finally listen to rely I
got so what do we do about this this
lack of information well first of all
you know we essentially don't teach
civics anymore I'll bet most of you had
to sit through seventh and eighth grade
lectures you may have hated about here
is how a bill becomes law and it's not
the sausage-making version but we
Americans don't even know their
constitution you know I taught third
year law students I'm not a lawyer but I
taught third year law students for eight
and a half years and I was just struck
by boy they've had a whole year of con
law con law 1 & 2 and what they didn't
know about the Constitution because they
were learning the mechanics of how to be
a lawyer not the legal theory and the
principles of it we need to have an
education system that changes our
education system was designed in the
late 19th century to produce drones and
it's done a great job of doing that
and only about 15% of Americans get a
really high-quality education and we
need to teach critical thinking skills
which means you can challenge your
teacher something I used to get sent to
the principal's office for when I was
young that you that that teaches the
theory of why we rule ourselves why we
why Donald Trump is our employee not the
person who amorosa says we will all Bend
our knee to and Americans really don't
know these things
you know that back in the 50s there was
a bill introduced or a resolution
earnest in the Texas Legislature calling
something communist and getting it
denounced it was the Bill of Rights so
you know the ignorance of Americans is
not to be underestimated but but yes we
need to develop that's a long term
problem that we need to address in the
short run we need to get people to stop
watching the the car accident on the
other side of the freeway
that Donnell has created along with with
his audience with his his entertainment
value with having dancing girls and
marching band and fireworks so sir ma'am
hi thanks for coming um thank you for
coming well basically I have concerns
because I'm not sure if getting everyone
to votes is the Silver Bullet and what I
mean by that is I'm listening to your
great advice saying that everyone should
just grab everyone and go vote but we're
in this age where we've got to boss over
what we necessarily have a great track
record a bunch of swarthy so what else
can we do
overcoming the fact that we're kind of
set up for not having the right
information people aren't eco change I
got it I got it I got it so first of all
yes we need to educate people about what
the issues are and that's when the
reasons I want people to read the book I
wanted to change the level of the
conversation you know I've walked into
blue collar bars not dressed like this
in Ohio and Michigan Pennsylvania New
York and just sat there and it's
astonishing to me that my business
legitimately treats blue-collar workers
like they're idiots you watch a play and
suddenly and I don't follow sports but
the analysis level of the last scrimmage
or the double out is just extraordinary
and these people are not dumb they're
just disconnected from politics we need
what was the survey data shows is that
if everybody voted we wouldn't have all
those right-wingers in Congress we'd
have them from certain locations but we
wouldn't have them we would have a much
more economically liberal country but if
you don't get people out to vote there's
Erie exactly zero hope this will change
so our democracy isn't perfect you know
it's been getting better over time or
right now it's like when Marnie Python
said you know humans make progress but
there were the dark ages we need to get
out of that and the only way to do that
is you got to remove from Congress the
people who are being sick of panic about
Trump what would you recommend to people
in terms of being able to understand the
difference between opinions and facts
you know that great quote about there's
a couple of books there's a couple of
very short simple books about this Bruce
Bartlett who
the chairman of the board of DC report
often called every liberals favorite
Republican because he's principled
brought a simple book about a little
short book you can read about how to
differentiate that and one of the things
to tell people about my book well you
know like the stuff I said about Donald
in the drug trafficking
there's page after page of notes and
court document in my notes of court
documents a letter he wrote
documentation for it isn't I think this
of that it's here's what the public
record shows okay sir Johnson thank you
very much for being here and all that
you do on the media especially Democracy
Now in Pacific and network I follow you
there my answer would be labor when
we've had great problems in this country
the waivers what's the question I'm here
to answer questions okay well then I
would ask you did you think would you
think a national strike with labor would
help us out yeah I don't think he can be
pulled off when America was its most
prosperous more than a third of workers
were in unions private-sector workers
and 80 percent of workers benefited when
I was chairman of the newspaper guild in
in Philadelphia was Tribune into that by
my peers I was astonished at all the
low-level management people that come to
me and say how are the talks going might
say why why you're not in Union they say
yeah but the Union sets our wages you
know we're a low level management we're
not big execs we get what you guys get
plus a little extra maybe and so I
there's just not enough strength only
six percent of private production
workers are in unions a better strategy
I think is comedy on the one side some
of the indivisible groups that are
showing up in the women's group showing
up at terminal congressman's offices are
bringing cupcakes and singing songs and
making fun and and a second is shaming
people I'm contemplating shaming Fox
News which used to have me on and I
don't think I'll say it here very loudly
and clearly I don't believe that Tucker
Carlson or Sean Hannity has the courage
to have me on for a 15-minute segment
that isn't taped in advance so they can
edit it because they're not caring
balance but have me on for 15 minutes
unedited and we'll see so let me see
over here this side sir you've made
three references to
rusha so far all three of them are in
the video of a cold warrior and why is
that well because the odd Amir Putin has
said in his own writings and his own
interviews that democracy is a joke and
that he wants to undermine democracy and
he is a clear and present enemy of the
United States of America that's that's
that's propaganda well ok you think it's
propaganda that's tongs and post
propaganda well simply do you think he's
our friend this is a man who financed
the campaign of marine lepen the
rightest in France this is a man who
seized the Crimea well sir we're gonna
disagree about that ok sir so between
the heat of the campaign season and now
how do you say Trump's rhetoric has or
hasn't involved in person and on social
media especially Twitter basically I
don't know the things he's saying the
message he's president how's it evolved
over the past year well I think
Donnelly's become over time more
blatantly racist you know the s whole
comment is a good example that he's
become more blatantly racist but he also
is less and less engaged when we have
the government shutdown in 2013 you know
he's Obama's responsibility to get in
there and fix it him fix this one
because he doesn't know what to do and
that's the the principle change that
we've seen is that over time the the
Donnelly was on my nose he's not
qualified to do this you know even
though he thinks he's the superior human
being the genetically superior Donald
Trump who of course should be President
he also knows he doesn't know what he's
doing and he fills in the blanks and
Donald also and this does show up in his
Twitter feeds there's some there's some
clear cognitive decline here ok I'm two
years younger than him I used to as a
parlor trick as a kid multiply four
digits by four digits in my head you
give me your 10 digit phone number I got
to write it down
Donald used to speak in coherent
paragraphs I spoken with him many times
we carried on a conversation you know
for an hour and a half or two hours but
now it's word salad it's terrific it's
beautiful it's just it's beautiful it's
so beautiful
it's so beautiful he just speaks in
adjectives and unless he's reading and
he's reading as you can see you know I
can't even read right I mean after all I
I'm just waiting for one of those F
fifty-two fighter jets to fly overhead
okay yes sir my question has to do with
two resources in this room there are a
lot of people who are in a community
that is very supportive of Democrats for
the most part yeah I like I'd like to
ask you what can you speak to about how
we should direct our resources to other
other places not just money other places
to do that and the last one has to do
with corporate involvement because
that's okay when you gerrymander what
you try to do is create districts that
are about 53 4 or 5% your party and then
you Corral people so that you get 60 80
if you can 90% the other party in the
district well a 54% margin can be
overcome by turning out a vote so that's
why it really matters you're not gonna
win every seat you just need to win
enough based on historic norms the the
Republicans should lose control of the
house and the Senate they they may not
but what matters is picking districts
you know look at the congressman who
resigned open districts are easy to flip
ones with current members they require a
lot of effort a lot of groundwork so
corporate development yes my question
though is we should in this community
redirect our resources to those areas
that are could be flipped and that's
been time in the district or in Bethesda
the last one has to do with corporate
involvement corporations control a lot
of money that drives this and how can we
reach not these corporation directors
but the executives but the directors of
these corporations or the directors who
control the money you know corporations
were created to serve us you have no
right to have a corporation we want
corporations corporations encourage
risk-taking they're very important
they're a efficient vehicles for wealth
but what we're doing is we've given them
property rights which makes sense
because their property but then we gave
them political rights and a series of
decisions leading up to Citizens United
and in Hobby Lobby we literally gave
corporations religious rights you know
we pray to the
for more profits Mammon we need to scale
back and recognize corporations are a
tool to help us and the way to do that
lobbies work very well look at how
Disney changed its policies when there
are people who if you're a parent you've
paid the biz new tax the people who pay
the Disney tax made it clear that they
were going to you know make Disney less
profitable if it didn't change some of
its policies nothing wrong with
organizing boycotts and going after
companies for what they're doing look at
all the companies that quit running ads
with Rush Limbaugh that's a very
effective strategy do you think Donald
Trump is smart or stupid and why as they
follow on why would ray cone what's
smart and a difficult person call him
the only genius he ever met doc Donald
Donald is not particularly smart I
didn't think so and he's not a good
negotiator I've negotiated with her many
times and he is so easy to why would
worry Cohn say that I don't know but but
Donald is very you know different people
have different intelligence levels I did
a book for OJ Simpson while he was
awaiting trial Oh Jay Simpson couldn't
speak the King's English but when we
came to emotional intelligence figuring
out or figuring out who in a room was
powerful and important and mattered you
know OJ was off the chart really he
would know in this room who to sit next
to
if the lights went out for fifteen
minutes it just was astonishing but and
everything else not so smart and
Donald's like that he has an area where
he's very good at stuff and and he is
after all it's let's recognize he's a
grifter and he's a con artist but he's
the most successful con artist in the
history of the world okay ma'am hi I'm
Ali I'm a junior at Georgetown
University I was just wondering what you
think how you think students can get
more involved in this administration
beyond like letter-writing and phone
banking because a lot of the issues
aren't on the congressional side and
like you're saying right more in the
exam yes well I I you know college
students have played a very important
role in changing America the real
reforms in America come from the bottom
up there are lots of college students
who went on Freedom Rides there were
college students who led the fight
against the war
Vietnam and so you know you have to
organize the first thing you got to do
is you have to organize and you have to
pick something you can't scattershot hit
everything and then you've got to reach
out to other people and sell them a
message you know you've got to use what
the techniques of marketing and
persuasion to get people to come along
and so get students together and talk
about what's an issue we can do
something about get ideas from a lot of
people and then stick to it make when
you have a meeting assign responsibility
with the next meeting say did you do
what you were supposed to do and get
people to do it and then reach out and
actually act don't sit around and have a
bull session go do things whatever they
are act so thank you
[Applause]
you